okay so the galaxy fold we're at the
point now where Samsung has recalled all
the review nuts out there and they're
gonna try to fix it and just relaunch
this whole product and a little bit
clearly there was something wrong with
the fold at least the original devices
and they're gonna do what they can to
resolve this whole thing but as I sat
here thinking about the situation I
thought how did we get here like how do
we get to the point where Samsung was
putting out a device like this that felt
so unrefined and so rushed out into the
market and I just thought about the
sequence of events that basically put
Samsung in this position where they were
almost forced to do this so in 2018 they
were rumors like a lot of rumors that
Samsung was gonna put out the first
folding phone it was like hey you know
that's cool that's the first new type of
phone technology that a lot of people
were interested in but at the same time
there were rumors that a competitor
kwame was trying to do the exact same
thing but they were trying to beat
Samsung to that title that title of the
world's first foldable phone but then in
late 2018 there was an accusation of
theft there were some South Korean
prosecutors that were charging some
executives for selling the technology of
bendable OLED screens to a Chinese
competitor and one of those competitors
that were purchasing this stolen
technology was a company called b OE
they're one of the suppliers for
hallways phones in fact they're making
the bendable OLED screen for the
upcoming foldable huawei phone the mate
X so fast forward this whole thing - I
guess 2019 February where the galaxy
folds is launched at the Samsung event
and no one had seen this phone prior to
the event is pretty cool that they'd
kept it secret but it's 2019 leaks are
everywhere we see phones like six even
eight months before they get announced
how did Samsung keep this phone under
wraps this entire time and it makes me
think of one or maybe two possible
scenarios one possibility is that maybe
very few people had access to this phone
like maybe their test group was really
small and they just wanted to keep it
very contained very secretive so that it
wouldn't get leaked the other
possibility is that maybe this device
just got off the manufacturing line like
it's not fully tested but they just want
to show it out to the public so that
they could be first and then they would
take that time after the event to sort
things out and then kind of deal with
the aftermath
but in either of those cases there's not
a lot of testing involved and we've seen
the results we've seen these devices now
I fix it did a teardown of it this is a
very fragile device it's kind of
weirdest at how easy it is for crap to
get into the phone like up front under
the display there's a little bit of a
gap stuff can get in there and then on
the back there's a gap that runs along
the whole length of the hinge that stuff
can get in and once it's in there it's
very likely that it's gonna stay in
there and that's what the cause of a lot
of these problems are I'm not talking
about like the peeling of the protector
it's that when stuff gets into the phone
it busts the screen from the back the
hinge mechanism looks robust and the
panels themselves are supposedly rated
for like two hundred thousand folds it's
not the hardware like individually all
the parts are great it's just that when
you have moving parts like this and
they're all combined when there's one
point of weakness the thing will fail
and in this particular case it's the
fact that there's no ingress protection
there's just so many places that dirt
and other particulate matter can get
into the phone and break things so this
is where things get a little bit weird
when you look at the problem that this
phone has it's not like some obscure
problem dust is a very real thing it's
everywhere and if they had done some
proper testing and I'm not talking like
super extensive testing like actual
testing of this device in real-world
scenarios not just like folding the
screen with machines but actual testing
in people's hands they would have picked
up on this I mean look at the number of
review nuts out there that have had
issues from stuff getting into the phone
it's clearly a pretty common occurrence
but the reason why this happened is
because Samsung is Samsung they're a
company that feels pressure from the
market from the consumers to do things
quickly and sometimes they take
shortcuts and sometimes those shortcuts
don't pan out but other companies like
Apple for example they don't feel that
same kind of pressure at least not to
the same degree like like air power for
example they wanted to launch something
and they tried for a while to make it
work and when it didn't work and it
couldn't make it happen the way they
wanted it to they just axed the product
that obviously that's just a charger but
Samsung really wanted to be first this
time around and honestly I feel like
they should have been first they're one
of the pioneers in OLED bendable
technology and they deserved it they
deserve to be first and when you have
pressure like qua way that was going to
release a bendable phone of their own
like think about how they feel do we
really want that company qua way to come
out first means like hey we have the
world
first bendable phone they wanted to be
first they took a couple shortcuts to
get there and that's where we are right
now we have a recall on a product now
there's a part of me that feels like you
know Samsung they should have done this
but there's a bigger part of me that
just feels bad for them they got backed
into this corner they got pushed into
the situation where they had to rush it
and try to be first and now we're in a
situation where it might look bad for
the company I mean I think Samsung is
doing the right thing to recall it and
try to do what they can to fix it but it
also affects the public kind of
perception of what folding technology is
like for any folding phone that comes
out in the future people will question
its durability and reliability just
because Samsung a huge company messed up
on their launch but that's what we have
and I genuinely hope that Samsung is
able to resolve whatever issues they had
with that phone because playing with
that phone is one of the coolest things
I've been able to experience in quite a
while in tech okay hope you guys enjoyed
this video thumbs we liked it subs if
you loved it
see you guys next time
you